Yeah, well, we're at Guam.
All right. My citation speaks for itself. Yeah, I
would. I already read my citation.
The people I prosecuted There was a guy that came up
there to Guam, had three stripes on him, and they
charged him with selling whiskey at $50 or $75 a
bottle. I locked the son of a bitch up just like
that. He said, you can't lock me up. I said, no. He
said, I'm an officer. They want to lock you up.
Well, I'll teach you how to sell whiskey around
these islands for $75 a quart. They locked that son
of a bitch up right there on Guam. Then sent some
more of the same thing. What happened to them? Then
they finally got the WSA Admiral Lambs. Admiral
Lambs was head of the War Shipping
Administration. Then through him, they come down
and got him out and put him off the island. Was he
prosecuted? Huh? Was he a prosecutor? Well, I
didn't have anything to do with the courts on Guam.
Oh, okay, okay. Well, I locked the bastards up and
put them in the stockade. But he wasn't going to be
put in that stockade. I didn't have any goddamn
places to put people, you know.
Put them where I could put them, that's all.
I was a little bit acid, I'll admit, but you know
what I mean. I was taught that way by my commanding
general. You know? Mm-hmm. Will you tell me how you
got the Legion of Merit? I'm going to tell you in a
minute. The Bronze Star? I'm trying to find it now.
Okay. I'm going to take it.
Because I'd like to find out why you got the Bronze
Star in the Legion of Merit. All
right. That's on. In the name of the President of
the United States, Commander Marianas, the
United States Pacific Fleet takes pledge in
presenting the Legion of Merit to Colonel Victor
A. Baraka of the United States Marine Corps for
service that is set forth in the following. For
meritorious conduct, in the performance of
outstanding service as commanding officer of the
1st Base Headquarters Battalion, Fleet Marine
Force Pacific and Headquarters Commandant of
Island Command Guam from the 2nd of May 1944 to the
17th of January 1945 to September 1946. He
rendered valuable service in connection with the
early stages of planning for the coming Guam
operation and the setting up of the Island Command
on the island as commanding officer of the 1st Base
Headquarters Battalion and Headquarters
Commandant. During the early trying days of the
occupation, his tireless efforts, initiatives,
sound judgment, and able administrative ability
were major factors which contributed materially
to the early successful function of the Island
Command. He ran an outstanding service in
advising the island commander in connection with
the formulation of policy, initiation of
measures for the proper police of the island. He
built up a police organization that was modeled in
efficiency. As Pro-Marshal Guam, one of the major
advance bases in the Pacific, with jurisdiction
over the vast numbers of troops of all armed
service of the United States, he was assigned a
task of great responsibility demanding unusual
ability. which he successfully carried out in an
exemplary manner. His unwavering devotion to
duty and conduct through and keeping with the
highest tradition of the United States Naval
Service. Signed, Admiral Murray.
Now, why'd you get the brown star? All right, well,
I'll give you this one of these. I think I have two.
Oh, good. I believe I got... Well, you're kidding
me. All right, so I traded for the brown star.
These are all letters of congratulations they
sent along with you.
And you got this from the 20th Air Force, the Bronze
Star from the 20th Air Force. In the Army. And the
U.S. Army.
Citation of the Bronze Star Medal. Colonel Victor
Abraham, United States Marine Corps Reserve, for
meritorious achievement in connection with the
military operation against the enemy on Guam from
July the 17th to the 2nd of September, 1945. As
Provo Marshal of Guam, Colonel Baraka displayed
outstanding professional competence and
resources in the, and ably coordinating
military, ably coordinating military policies
duties of the Army, Navy, and Marine
organizations throughout throughout Guam. He
exhibited superior ability in establishing and
directing procedures, providing for traffic and
highway control, and for the security and
protection of ammunition, explosives, and
inflammable material in storage and in transit.
During the crucial period of the combat
preparation, his exceptional skill and
organization ability were conspicuous evidence
in the able manner in which he expedited the
movement of troops, supplies, and ammunition
with the utmost safety and dispatch. over rules
which were in process of construction, thereby
contributing greatly to the commencement of
operations against the enemy on schedule.
Through his deceitful judgment, foresight, and
unremitting devotion to duty, Colonel Baraka
made a notable contribution to support the combat
operations.
And when did you leave? as Provost Marshal of Guam
and go to this brief duty of China, but you don't
tell us anything. Well, I know that was just while I
was still on duty in Guam, I was still assigned.
Well, why'd they send you to China? Well, they sent
me up there on a trip to, first to observe the They
served Kinsen, Pekin, Tsing Wan Tao, and
Shanghai, where we Marines had all served and were
still there. Uh-huh. And what kind of—were you
supposed to make a report? I didn't make any report
at all. Well, why—to observe them? Well, why did
they— Observe them? They wanted me to have that
experience. That was all. Oh, I see. I had nothing
to do after that. What did you think about it? What
did you think about China? Great country. Great
country. It's a shame the Communists were
running.
What did you think about the Chinese people that
you met? I liked them. I
liked them. He wanted to copy
this
one. I don't know. I don't see...
I better check in on that blonde star business
someplace I don't know where they
are. Citation for it. I got the damn thing. Well,
you just read it. The bronze star citation. You
just read it. Right here. You just read that.
I don't...
And did you leave Guam then in January of 1946 to
become the island commander? No, no. This is all
under the island commander. Okay, okay. I'm
trying to find my damn citation. This one or you're
just kidding? I wish to express my gratification
upon the recognition of your meritorious
achievement in connection with the military
operation against the enemy on Guam, 17th of
January to 2nd of September, 1945. It is evident by
the award you have received a Bronze Star with
citations by the commanding general, United
States Army Forces Pacific, and by direction of
the President of the United States. That's what
you got into the record. That's who gave it to me.
And who signed that? Huh? Who sent that letter to
you? Vandegrift. So he must have had the stuff in
front of him someplace. I don't have, I have only
the citation, but I don't, but he tells me who it's
signed by. That's all I want to know. Did I give you
one of those? Yeah, right, yeah. What have you got,
the Legion of Merit? Yeah, I have it. But you don't
have a bronze star. Well, you only have one copy, so
maybe you should keep it. Well, you got it in the
record, didn't you? Yeah, well, you just read it to
the record. Okay. Let's see here. So that takes
care of
that. Well... And then let's continue on this.
About Guam. When did you leave Guam?
Oh, um, 1946. Wait a minute.
What is the... What is the, uh, the, uh...
What is the Legion of Merit? What does it say? From
what dates to what dates? 2 September 1945.
Alright, well I left there in 1940. What time is it?
September? Yeah. But you see here on this other...
That'd be 46 then. Okay, so you left in 1946. Come
along in there. Okay, and then you returned
directly to Camp Pendleton? Camp Pendleton.
After you left Guam? That's right. And then at Camp
Pendleton, then I took a leave and I had to come back
there because they were talking about trying to
get me to to stay on active duty. You were a full
colonel now. Yeah. But the way everything went
out, I'm glad it didn't because I would have had to
sacrifice too much here and reestablish myself.
In Houston? Yeah. Because I had property and stuff
here and I had a wife here. So you decided in 1946
that you— They decided. Hell, I'd have stayed as a
damn fool. I'd have stayed on, I guess, and took the
whipping, I guess. But I'm glad it worked out that
way. But the Marines then decided that it was time
for your retirement? No, it was time to go back to
inactive duty. To go to inactive duty. But you
wanted to stay on active duty. I'd have sooner
stayed, yeah. But anyhow, because... But I had
property back here, and it would be a sacrifice if I
did. But anyhow, I couldn't stay on for just a few
more years. I'd have to retire anyhow, you see. So
what was the point? You know, it wasn't at my age.
Okay. So you went back to reserve duty at Corpus
Christi Naval Air Station? All right. Well,
that's where that was my last station. Okay. I had
to go there. Okay. So tell me about that. Well,
that's just there, and you... What were you in
charge of? Huh? Nothing. Nothing. I was just in
transit. Oh, okay, in transit. So you were a
colonel in transit. I got to see my good buddies
that was there. Sure. So you went from Camp
Pendleton to Corvus Christi Naval Air Station,
and then back to... You were a lead from active duty
in 1947? 47, I forget what time. All right, and
organized a volunteer training unit in Houston.
Okay, at this time you were still a colonel. That's
right. And you graduated in the industrial
mobilization course. I took that. What was the
industrial mobilization course? It's all about
stocking up material for war. There's a diploma
sitting over there. You can look at that thing.
Okay. And then you served on Policy Board 8 Marine
Corps District. That's right, in New Orleans.
Okay, and? In the Promotion Board at Headquarters
Marine Corps. Okay.
But tell me about these reserve duties.
Well, they got full pay and everything.
Were you in charge? Well, I was always a senior, you
know. The volunteer training unit, my God, man, I
had 200 and something Marine Reserve officers, so
I had to get rid of the aviators and set them off for
themselves. And what did I say I was looking for?
Well, we were talking about the industrial
mobilization course, and you got up and started
looking for something. I said I had a diploma here
at some place. I was wondering what you did on the
8th Corps, on the policy board. Well, on the policy
board, you set the policy for the whole district.
Okay, and how large is that district? Oh, hell, it
run into
Oklahoma, Arizona at that time. Southern Reserve
District, the Reserve District. See, we had
troops in all these places. By that time, you had
organized reserves, battalions, all these
places. That's what that policy board was about.
Okay, and you set the policy, but you weren't the
senior officer. Yes, I was. Oh, you were the senior
officer. And the guy, you know what Tabasco Sauce
is? So you were the director, you were the CO.
Tabasco Sauce is, Tabasco Sauce, McElhinney,
McElhinney was one of the finest combat battalion
Marine Corps ever had in history. And he's the guy
that runs that Spice Island down there, Tabasco
South. And he's a big, he retired him as a brigadier
without pay because he didn't have enough time in.
But he's a guy that's a big beneficiary of the
Marine Military Academy down here that somebody
better take cognizance of. He's doing a good job.
Oh, great. All right, down there we are. Well, what
kind of policies did you come up with? Were you the
CO of that then? No, I was a senior member. They put
certain propositions in front of you, and we had to
discuss them and pass on them. Okay. The whole
district. Were there any that you thought were
really important that should be on tape? No. I
think that everything they were doing was
according to training. The troops were being
trained properly, the armors were being
constructed, the units were being organized, and
the people were attending the business. And then
you had two tours of duty at headquarters U.S.
Marine Corps Promotion Board. Yeah, I've got
pictures of that. So you were in charge. Where is
that? At Washington, D.C. Okay, and you were in
charge. No, I wasn't in charge. I was just a member
of the board. Right, you were a member of the board,
and you were reviewing people's service records
to make recommendations? Promotion. Okay.
pictures of them over there somewhere. And would
you go, how long were you there? Well, each tour
lasted two weeks. Okay. And you'd do this every
year, once every two? I did two tours. Okay, okay.
So that's the way that you'd fill your active
reserve by going to that? Sure, that's right.
Okay. And then you remained active in various
assignments, for example, until 1955 when you
retired. That's right. But what were some of those
assignments? Well, uh, the, uh, this volunteer
training unit took a couple hours commanding off
of that until practically retired. Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. Okay. And we met every week. Okay. How'd
you make general? I told you on that combat
citation.
Mm-hmm. On retirement, under the law. Okay. They
had to promote me. And
I read your citations.
Yeah, I know. I participated in visitation rites
of the Vietnam veterans. I got pictures there
where I went down to Corpus Christi two or three
times and decorated those people and all that
stuff. Pictures of all that. And I said, I'm a
member of the military affairs committee of the
chamber of all veterans, all grades in the
American Marine Corps Reserve. There's my
chapter window. You can pull that right down
there, take them pictures off of there. Right
here. Oh, no, no, over there. Underneath there,
you can see. Yeah, I saw that. All right, okay.
My chapter won that twice. Mm-hmm. They have a
chapter named after me. Yeah, I know that. How did
that come about? How did it come about that they
named a reserve corps chapter after you? Because
the other chapter was named after
The other one was named after John W. Thompson? No,
the chapter was named that. See?
And they decided, well,
they'd honored him long enough so they wanted to
honor me, so they named it. And these were your men
who named it for you? No, Marine officers. But
these are formerly your subordinates? Some of
these men have been your subordinates? Not
enlisted men. Some of them officers have been my
subordinates. I see.
Uh-huh. Did you want to retire from the Marine
Corps in 55 or would you rather have stayed? By age,
I had to under the law. Yeah. Okay.
I got various letters appreciating every place I
served. In fact, those natives in Samoa
They come up.
My deputy came to me and he said, they're meeting
over there. They want you. I said, what do they want
me about? He said, they want to talk to you. The high
chief got up and he said, you have shown us the
light. You've shown us how to work. You've shown us
how to appreciate America. We want you to extend
your duty as a lawyer, seeley, seeley. That means
high lawyer. So I had to tell them, no, I want the
orders right now. If the war is going the other way,
I don't want to stay there. And I went on, you see.
Well, that was nice of them to say. Sure it was. Oh,
yeah, they all respected me. I had no trouble. When
they found out that I didn't know bullshit, that I
wasn't going to trade pussy for, you know, for
favor. Is that on the record? Yeah, now I'm turning
it back on. Oh, wait, we're going to... We're not
done yet, are we? Can I ask you some more questions?
Yeah. Okay, so I wanted to ask you, how did you feel
on the day of your retirement? Do you remember? Did
you feel pretty sad about it? Well, not exactly. I
did in a way, yes, but...
You know, those times I had to come to everybody.
And of course, I got pictures there with the
military, the Chamber of Commerce, the Honored
Men and so forth and so on and all that. So, you know,
I'm proud to be a Marine. I went to the convention
in New Orleans the end of May. I'm the oldest guy
there all the time, but I promised John Smith I'd
always be there. I'm Mads Smith, you know, heard of
him maybe. So that's that. Well can we talk, I'd
just like to talk about A&M just a little bit here,
and you know some people say that A&M is more than
just a college or a university, that it's
something, it's more than just that. Do you agree,
and if it is, what do you think it is? It's a
fraternity. It's a way of life.
It's a way of life. It's a religion, just like being
a Marine.
It's a satisfaction within one to know he's an
Aggie and he's accomplished something. And not
only him has he accomplished, but others have in
every walk of life. And that's why I say it's a
fraternity, though. Okay, well, what ways do you
think that A&M changed your life? I don't know if
A&M changed my life. A&M molded my life. It didn't
change my life. Moved it? Molded it. Molded it.
Okay, well, how did it mold it then? Well, I'm not
unhappy with the happenings in my life. No, I
mean... I don't understand. Would you explain
what you mean by molded? Well, molding my life
means that I can look around at a fellow Aggies, and
I'm proud of them. They're proud of me. But I have
given, too. I've been a member of the Ex-Student
Association, on the board of directors of the
Ex-Student Association. I've been president of
the Houston A&M Club. I've given, and I've been
interested in young people. I've been on
recruiting tours for the Marine Corps, I mean for
the With athletics, I've been on recruiting for
scholars. And I get up all my, I go down to that A&M
club every Monday that I can.
I do all I can do. Okay. Do you think that, I want to
ask you as a general, how does somebody who's been a
success in the military, Do you think that you've
become a success in the military the same way you do
as a lawyer or any other professional field?
No, because everybody will have the opportunity
to show what they can do. I was lucky that a general
had faith in me and knew what I could do. That's when
it took away from one staff to another. Generals
would fight for my service. I'm not being
braggadocious about it. Because they knew I'd
work. I was stupid enough to work. There was no
politics to me. I just called it like it is. That's
it. Would you have considered yourself
ambitious?
Perhaps if I were more ambitious, maybe I'd have
acquired more. I've been a million-dollar
bracket once. I don't mean to be braggadocious
about it, but I'm glad I'm not in that anymore. But
when you were in the military, did you ever, was
there a time when you thought that you might want to
be a general or did you just sort of leave your
advancement to, well, your superiors? No, I
never, I never thought. The only thing I ever
wanted out of the Marine Corps was to be qualified
to be the globe eagle and anchor. That was my only
thought of affiliation with the service because I
was proud to be a Marine.
What do you think, in your whole military career as
a Marine, what do you think, when you look back on
it, what do you think were the best
accomplishments?
Because you've had a really rich career out of Guam
and Samoa and things like that. What did you think
was the best thing, your best accomplishment? I
think they were both good. And I think if I had made a
reputation back in Samoa, I wouldn't have mounted
anything up in... In Guam, because that was a big,
big job. That was bigger than that native job down
there because I was head of these things and I could
almost do all that. But this thing here was nuts. I
had to deal with all military personnel here,
Japanese prisoners and things like that. This way
I had military personnel also to back me up and back
me up in my civilian, whatever it is. Was there
anything in your military career that you
thought, well, maybe I could have done a better job
on that, or maybe I just sort of, I mean, I just, I
wish, when you think back, you said, well, that you
might say, well, I wish, you know, that was sort of a
shortcoming on my part. Maybe I could have done
more there. Was there anything like that? Never.
You always felt that you were giving 100%? I always
felt that I was giving everything that was
required of me. Okay, okay. You know, a lot of,
young core kids today talk about leadership and in
order to become a general you have to have some kind
of a leadership potential. You've got to deliver
your job that they give you. You've got to be able to
subordinate. I mean, delegate. Supervise.
Subordinate. Be patient.
Psychoanalyze people. Put yourself in their
shoes. What would you do? Okay, so I want to know how
you define leadership, in other words. You're
obviously a general and a leader, so if you had to go
to Aggieland and give a talk to a bunch of corpsmen
on leadership, how would you define it? What would
you tell them? Well, the quality of leadership is
having first integrity. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. And
having confidence in what you're talking about
and knowing your subject, know what you're
talking about. Mm-hmm. And remember, I was scared
to death when I was in front of a platoon as a second
lieutenant because I was afraid somebody in that
platoon was a graduate of the University of
Minnesota with magna cum laude and knew more than I
did. So therefore, I was scared of my subject. I had
to be, in my own mind, I had to prepare myself to do
what I was supposed to do. So preparation comes in
all that. And everything. It's just not just
happens. And determination. Okay.
And I gave you all that there with the Marines. I
gave you that thing right over there, resources,
all that kind of business. The Marines got to learn
how to shoot. Something like that. Yeah, I see
that. I have this thing right here. Which he wrote.
You can send it back to me. There it is. Patriotism
and loyal, discipline, self-respect and pride,
alertness, spiritual cheerfulness,
enthusiasm, initiative, resourcefulness. You
can't use that typewriter. You can use a pen.
Aggressiveness, determination and tenacity.
Stick to a thing. The best shot in the world, of
course. Privilege and honor of being a Marine. But
these other things in the middle there are things
that bring all this thing up. a clean mind, a clean
body, and deliver the message to Garcia. You ever
heard of that before? During the
Spanish-American War, they gave this ensign this
job to deliver this message, and he killed people,
but he delivered the message to Garcia. Get the job
done. These are all the things in here to bring me to
shift. Okay, did you have all these values? Well,
now that we have it on tape, you can keep it. Did we
have all these... Did you, as a leader, did you have
all those values, do you think? I think I tried to.
Okay, okay. I aspired to them. Ain't nobody
perfect. Right, right,
right. See? So... There you are. The only thing is
that... I say the only thing... Maybe some other
time we'll get all these pictures together for
you. Okay. You know, there's different types of
leaders, General. I know that. There are leaders
who think that go out using a lot of obscenity,
we'll put it around you. That only makes the troops
know you don't know what the hell you're doing.
You're showing off.
Well, what about, you know, In the military,
there's sort of the General Patton type, who's a
tough guy, and there's sort of... I believe in him.
And there's sort of the Eisenhower type, who's
more of one who works for cooperation. What kind of
leader were you, and which one did you like the
most? I liked Patton.
Because he believed in training. Okay. And he
believed also... If something's got to be done,
you got to do it, whether you like it or not.
Then on top of that, I looked at the background of
Patton.
Patton said...
You can have that.
And here is some more. I will give you that some
other time.
When was this given to General Larson? During the
time when it passed to me. You can have it. I've got
plenty of them. So this is like 1945? Yeah. You've
got to have confidence.
Did you know that I shouldn't tell you this, but
there's one guy that said I could have been
president of A&M College. You know who that was?
Caesar Augusta Hone, the guy who wrote The
Dutchman on the Brazzers. You ever read it? No, I
haven't read it, but I've heard of it, yeah. That's
how much he thought of me. I lived in a tent right in
front of his where he had his candy shop in his
trunk. He and old Dixon. Did you want it? Who? I
never thought, my god, I never thought I'd be
capable of being president of the A&M College. But
Judge Holman thought it after I got to be a lawyer. I
wasn't no great John Marshall or anything like
that. I guess, you know, I took, I took the, I took
the law as something that I needed to help hold on
what I could get, the holding life perhaps, you
know. I never aspired to be a big corporation
lawyer or anything like this, nothing like that.
But I helped a lot of people acquire homes, because
we represented the mortgage loan people. And I got
a lot of contractors mad at me, too, because when
they'd come up there and say they were going to do
something for so much money, I knew damn well they
couldn't do it. And then in the end, you wind up with
a lien, and a this, and a that, and the other, and a
lawsuit.
The best way to have a lawsuit is compromise. Don't
have any lawsuits.
That's why I want to tell you this. My brother blew
his brains out on it. He wouldn't listen to what I
was talking about. We owned props from Woodhead to
Hazard, North Boulevard, Bissonette, and South
Boulevard, and he wouldn't listen to them. And all
he had to do was compromise and give the Salmon
Hospital estate $2,500 for 50 by 200 feet on Hazard
Street and it would have been all over. But in the
end, no, he wouldn't do it. He said I didn't know
what I was talking about. He's 18 years older than I
am. There's a picture over there and he finally in
the end we lost and he blew his brains out. So you see
I've had all I've had so much. Anyhow
I don't know I don't want to wear you out. I don't
want to wear you out. Well I wanted to ask you just
one more thing. All right. And that deals with
It deals with the changes that have taken place at
A&M over the last, well, since General Rudder,
okay? And I wanted, I'm sure that you know General
Rudder, our new General Rudder, and what do you
think of those changes? You know, A&M no longer has
mandatory corps, and now it has women, and now it
has blacks, and it's gone from 6,000 to 34,000.
What do you think of all those changes? Well, the
first thing I think that the, About the Corps, I
want to get in on that. I think that they've
bastardized the Smith-Lever Act, the Howell Act,
the Marl Act, because it said they should teach
military science and tactics. That's why you got a
land grant. I understand that we couldn't put
people back in the Corps after World War I, World
War II, Korea, and Vietnam when they'd already had
the service. Mm-hmm. But you still had to obligate
them to military science and tactics and training
for at least two years.
And they should have held to that, regardless.
Regardless. Now, I know why. Mothers commenced
losing their sons in the this and the that and the
other. And if they didn't get the girls in there,
they wasn't going to have their appropriations.
If they didn't put the blacks in there, you'd be
violating the Civil Rights Act.
So history changes everything. So did you think it
was a good idea to have the women and the blacks?
What do you think? What's your opinion? You
couldn't stop that. You couldn't stop the black
part of it. The women part, you couldn't stop that
either because of the changing times. Okay.
Changing times. Not like old Mr. Smith said, the
great benefactor who gives this Aggie... the
Solar Rolls reunion last night, he's got it
perpetuated, financed forever. He hadn't got, he
said all A&M needed was a football team, a band, and
a cadet corps. But he had to give up with the women
part and all that. I still believe that, but I know
that the school game couldn't grow. And so you
thought that growth was good for it? I don't think,
I think it's something that had to be. Oh, okay. It
had to be, it had to come to pass. On a changing time,
women's rights, and all of that.
And on top of that, showing the grades that these
women make, some of these women make better grades
than men. And on top of that, on some of the jobs
they're getting, which I hear at the A&M Club,
industrial work, and this, that, and the other.
But the only thing I have got to gripe at A&M College
is about one thing, that every male should have two
years of military training. That's it. That's the
only gripe I have. I don't say about the women. I've
got a gripe on that. I say they're bastardizing the
Smith-Cleaver Act. And I know why they're doing
it, on politics.
A lot of times people don't want to send a kid to A&M.
They're probably going to send him to war and get
him killed. Well, everybody owes the obligation.
I made a speech. Is this on tape? I made a speech at
the Chamber of Commerce on the Marine Corps
birthday several years ago in Pasadena. And when I
got through telling them about the history of the
Marine Corps and what we celebrate today for and so
forth and so on, the birthday of the Marine Corps,
from the early days until now, and I wound up my
speech by saying the only difference between a
person in the Army, Navy, Coast Guard, Health
Corps, is that a Marine is trained to meet God most
any time. And this kid here, who was killed the
other day, he knew he wasn't scared to die. He was
not scared to die. That's a different Marine Corps
than the rest of them. We're trained to die. They
told us that's our job. And as fast as one Marine
goes, a Marine never dies. Another one comes in his
place. And the same hats and faces you see there in
1917, I looked out there in the division in 1940,
and I saw the same faces as the sons of the same
faces. Another generation. Yes. But at A&M
College, of course, I think that I won. I think
A&M's had great presidents. I think Dr. Williams,
who was a battalion commander, who made three
assault landings, who don't brag about it, he made
you one of your fine presidents. I think Rutter
made a fine president. I think a man that be
president of A&M College should have some
military background.
See? I can't help what discipline they want. and
all like that. But I had a friend of mine named
General Chase. But when I found out what his
discipline was on political science, I never
even... They gave me the courage to recommend the
president, but that, you know, didn't mean
anything. But the proof of the pudding is in the
eating. The proof of the discipline of the Marine
Corps is the efficiency And how we have to always go
with less because we have fought and jealous of by
the other service. So we have to get out there and
compete and do better than the rest of the people.
So it is A&M College now. These kids who go to
school, they realize they can't mess off. They
can't screw around. They got to get to work. And if
they don't produce when they get on a job, they
ain't gonna hold that job because they don't hold
them on that diploma. It only holds on what you can
produce. And if you don't produce anything, he and
them collars get the black eye.
Speaking about other services, before I asked you
and you said you'd talk about this, the difference
between Annapolis officers, Aggie officers,
West Point officers, would you tell me the
difference? I prefer Aggie officers in my book.
And why is that? Because I have served with them.
They're good. They're all good. They're all good.
The Naval officers graduated from Minneapolis.
They've got the eight balls, too. And after every
war, you see them retire. A bunch of those people
have been in the Navy. They graduated Naval
Academy. Armand Simpson, who's at A&M, was
sitting on the porch with me In Samoa, when he said
he'd just heard from Marge and that Dr. Walton was
not there anymore and he'd lost his job, I said,
Armand, I'm older than you are. I'm going to tell
you what happened after World War I. They fooled
around and found all these people who were
reservists and things like that, and they found
they were competent, and they outshored a regular
officer, and they retired the regular officer,
and they put that reserve officer in the job, and
that's what happened. The next day he was ordered
to MacArthur staff, and look at him today.
Armand's a good friend of mine, personal friend of
mine. That's the way it is. So I have no prejudice.
Some of them are good, some of them I have no
prejudice. But I do object to having a clique of
people from Annapolis to pass on things, to pass
favors on to a guy because he's from Annapolis. I
believe in passing on, doing only on ability and
performance.
I knew a Marine officer who had a fine World War I
record. He had a fine record in the West Indies, in
Nicaragua, Haiti, San Domingo.
But he was living World War I all the time, and he was
this, that, and the other. And then the 6th
Marines, they gave him a regiment, and he called
for fire on the wrong side, and he got about 8, 10
Marines killed, and General Shepard relieved him
immediately, although he had fought. in Belleau
Wood with General Shepard. That's beneficial.
Right. I've seen all these things happen. And I've
seen right after World War II, they commenced. I
had one of them eight balls as a battalion
commander on Guam, and all of a sudden trying to
impress me that he was a graduate of Fort Monmouth,
New Jersey, and so forth, the communications guy.
I said, well, just get communication on the
battalion. All I want is you keep your battalion in
communication with my headquarters. That's all.
And every Monday and Tuesday he'd come to me. I
said, please, go ahead on. As soon as the war was
over, they bust some lieutenant colonels, a
major. Out he went. Another time, that same
officer was out in Samoa. And the raiders were
about ready to leave, and I went out there and I had
to investigate a matter where they stole some
rifles from the 22nd Marines, which was commanded
by an Aggie, Johnny Walker. About the rifles they
stole, and I went out there, and hey, this
officer's sitting there sleeping. I said, why in
the hell ain't you out with Colonel Liver said? Oh,
he says, I'm the exec. See, he was a man with a
pistol, he was a man with a quirk, and he was a man
just sitting there. That's that same meeting. He
comes to me as a lieutenant colonel, commanding.
Anyhow, so I told Liversedge that night, he and I
were good friends. I said, God damn. I said, I went
out there to your exec. I said, as far as I'm
concerned, I'm going to tell you now. I forgot
about this affair, all those raffles out of the
22nd Marines. I'm going to put in a negative
report. I know you goddamn men got those rifles.
Those kids over there just brought some extra
rifles along with them, that's all. I said, you
better get rid of that damn exec you got. You're
going to get yourself killed and everybody else.
He said, don't worry, I'm going to get rid of that
son of a bitch as soon as I get to Normia. And he did.
And I'll get him laid on as a battalion commander.
Tell me anyway. I've had the experience. I know
what I'm talking about.